---
url: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/chrome-131-beta?hl=en
title: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/chrome-131-beta?hl=en
date: 2025-05-11T16:54:19.120334
depth: 2
---

[ Skip to main content ](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/chrome-131-beta?hl=en#main-content)
  * English
  * Deutsch
  * Español – América Latina
  * Français
  * Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * Nederlands
  * Português – Brasil
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Русский
  * العربيّة
  * ภาษาไทย
  * 中文 – 简体
  * 中文 – 繁體

Sign in


  * [ Chrome for Developers ](https://developer.chrome.com/)


#  Chrome 131 beta 
Stay organized with collections  Save and categorize content based on your preferences. 
Rachel Andrew 
[ GitHub ](https://github.com/rachelandrew) [ LinkedIn ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rachelandrew) [ Mastodon ](https://front-end.social/@rachelandrew) [ Bluesky ](https://bsky.app/profile/rachelandrew.bsky.social) [ Homepage ](https://rachelandrew.co.uk)
Published: October 16, 2024 
Unless otherwise noted, the following changes apply to the newest Chrome beta channel release for Android, ChromeOS, Linux, macOS, and Windows. Learn more about the features listed here through the provided links or from the list on [ChromeStatus.com](https://chromestatus.com). Chrome 131 is beta as of October 16, 2024. You can download the latest on [Google.com](https://www.google.com/chrome/beta/) for desktop or on Google Play Store on Android.
## CSS
This release adds eight new CSS features.
### CSS Anchor Positioning: anchor-scope
The `anchor-scope` property allows limiting the visibility of anchor names to a given subtree.
### ​CSS `font-variant-emoji`
The `font-variant-emoji` CSS property provides a way to control between colored (emoji-style) and monochromatic (text-style) emoji glyphs. This can be also done by adding an emoji Variation Selector, specifically U+FE0E for text and U+FE0F for emoji, after each emoji codepoint.
### CSS highlight inheritance
With CSS highlight inheritance, the CSS highlight pseudo-classes, such as `::selection` and `::highlight`, inherit their properties through the pseudo highlight chain, rather than the element chain. The result is a more intuitive model for inheritance of properties in highlights.
To learn more, read the blog post [Inheritance changes for CSS selection styling](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/selection-styling) written by Stephen Chenney from Igalia.
### Improvements to styling structure of `<details>` and `<summary>` elements
Support more CSS styling for the structure of `<details>` and `<summary>` elements to allow these elements to be used in more cases where disclosure widgets or accordion widgets are built on the web. In particular, this change removes restrictions that prevented setting the display property on these elements, and adds a `::details-content` pseudo-element to style the container for the part that expands and collapses.
### `@page` margin boxes
Add support for page margin boxes, when printing a web document, or exporting it as PDF.
The `@page` margin boxes let you define the contents in the margin area of a page, for example to provide custom headers and footers, rather than using the built-in headers and footers generated by the browser.
A margin box is defined using an at-rule inside a CSS `@page` rule. The appearance and the contents of a margin box are specified with CSS properties inside the at-rule, including the `content` property. Counters are also supported, for page numbering. The specification defines two special counter names: `page` for the current page number and `pages` for the total number of pages.
### @property support `<string>` syntax
Support for `<string>` syntax component name for registered custom properties.
### Support currentcolor in relative color syntax
Allow relative colors in CSS (using the `from` keyword) to use `currentcolor` as a base. This lets you set complementary colors, based on an element's text color, for that element's borders, shadows, or backgrounds.
This feature also includes use cases where color functions are nested with a dependency on currentcolor, for example `color-mix(in srgb, rgb(from currentcolor r g b), white))` or `rgb(from rgb(from currentcolor 1 g b) b g r)`.
### Support external SVG resources for `clip-path`, `fill`, `stroke`, and `marker-*` properties
This feature adds support for external references for clip paths, markers, and paint servers (for the 'fill' and 'stroke' properties). For example, `clip-path: url("resources.svg#myPath")`.
## Web APIs
### Direct Sockets API
Allows Isolated Web Apps to establish direct transmission control protocol (TCP) and user datagram protocol (UDP) communications with network devices and systems as well as listen to and accept incoming connections.
### Exempt Speculation-Rules header from CSP restrictions
Updates the integration between speculation rules and CSP so that CSP only applies to `<script type=speculationrules>`, and not to the `Speculation-Rules` header. CSP's script policies are meant to protect against injection of scripts into HTML, and the CSP threat model doesn't relate to HTTP headers. This allows easier deployment of speculation rules from CDNs and other edge servers.
### FedCM as a trust signal for the Storage Access API
Reconciles the FedCM and Storage Access APIs by making a prior FedCM grant a valid reason to automatically approve a storage access request.
When a user grants permission to use their identity with a third-party identity provider (IdP) on a relying party (RP), many IdPs require third-party cookies to function correctly and securely. This proposal aims to satisfy that requirement in a private and secure manner by updating the Storage Access API (SAA) permission checks to not only accept the permission grant that is given by a storage access prompt, but also the permission grant that is given by a FedCM prompt.
A key property of this mechanism is limiting the grant to cases explicitly allowed by the RP with the FedCM permissions policy, enforcing a per-frame control for the RP and preventing passive surveillance by the IdP beyond the capabilities that FedCM already grants.
### COOP value `noopener-allow-popups`
Some origins can contain different applications with different levels of security requirements. In those cases, it can be beneficial to prevent scripts running in one application from being able to open and script pages of another same-origin application.
In such cases, it can be beneficial for a document to ensure its opener cannot script it, even if the opener document is a same-origin one. The `noopener-allow-popups` Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy value lets documents define that behavior.
### Private Aggregation API: increase contribution limit to 100 for Protected Audience callers
Enables Protected Audience script runners to make up to 100 contributions per Private Aggregation report, compared to the current limit of 20.
Private Aggregation limits the number of histogram contributions that can be embedded in a single aggregatable report, dropping any additional contributions. Shared Storage callers can work around the limit by invoking another Shared Storage operation. However, Protected Audience callers have no persistent storage, so they lose their excess contributions at the end of their auction. Note that this change is privacy neutral as the API's contributions are still limited by the same privacy budget.
Due to padding, each Protected Audience report will have a larger payload, even if it did not need the larger contribution limit. We expect that these larger reports will increase the cost of operating the Aggregation Service.
### Select parser relaxation
This change makes the HTML parser allow additional tags in `<select>` besides `<option>`, `<optgroup>`, and `<hr>`.
This change is in support of the customizable `<select>` feature but is being shipped first because it can be done separately and has some compat risk which the Chrome team would like to get feedback on.
### WebGPU: Clip distances
Adds the optional GPU feature `clip-distances` that allows setting user-defined clip distances in vertex shader outputs. This technique is particularly useful for the applications that need to clip all vertices in a scene that are beyond a user-defined plane, such as many CAD applications.
### WebGPU: GPUCanvasContext `getConfiguration()`
Once `GPUCanvasContext configure()` has been called with a configuration dictionary, you can use the `GPUCanvasContext getConfiguration()` method to check the canvas context configuration. It includes GPU `device`, `format`, `usage`, `viewFormats`, `colorSpace`, `toneMapping`, and `alphaMode` members. [As discussed in issue 4828](https://github.com/gpuweb/gpuweb/issues/4828), web apps can use it to detect whether HDR canvas is supported in WebGPU.
### WebHID on dedicated workers
Enables WebHID inside dedicated worker contexts. This lets you perform heavy I/O and processing of data from a HID device on a separate thread, helping to reduce the performance impact on the main thread.
### WebRTC `RTCRtpEncodingParameters.scaleResolutionDownTo`
An API that configures WebRTC encoders to scale input frames if they are greater than the specified `maxWidth` and `maxHeight`. This API is similar to `scaleResolutionDownBy` except that resolution constraints are expressed in absolute terms (for example, 640x360) as opposed to relative terms (for example, scale down by 2), avoiding race conditions related to changing input frame size on the fly.
## New origin trials
In Chrome 131 you can opt into the following new [origin trials](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/origin-trials).
### Playout statistics for WebAudio
The `AudioContext.playoutStats` feature allows an application to measure the quality and latency of audio playout using WebAudio.
### Summarizer API
A JavaScript API for producing summaries of input text, backed by an AI language model.
## Deprecations and removals
This version of Chrome introduces the following deprecations and removals. Visit ChromeStatus.com for lists of planned deprecations, current deprecations and previous removals.
This release of Chrome removes three features.
### Remove the CSS Anchor Positioning property `inset-area`
With the CSS Working Group resolution on renaming the `inset-area` property to `position-area`, this removal cleans up the implementation in Chromium for a standards compliant feature.
### Remove the ability to disable `BeforeunloadEventCancelByPreventDefault`
Feature `BeforeunloadEventCancelByPreventDefault` was shipped in Chrome 117, but there is an enterprise policy that allows this flag to be force-disabled. The enterprise policy will be removed in Chrome 131.
### Remove non-standard GPUAdapter `requestAdapterInfo()` method
The WebGPU Working Group decided it was impractical for `requestAdapterInfo()` to trigger a permission prompt so they've removed that option and replaced it with the GPUAdapter `info` attribute so that web developers can get the same `GPUAdapterInfo` value synchronously.
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), and code samples are licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). For details, see the [Google Developers Site Policies](https://developers.google.com/site-policies). Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2024-10-16 UTC.

